# Hotel Database Application

## Provided Files
Implemented and Filled Hotel database
SQL Schemas
SQL Populating table

## Overview
This project aims to create a centralized relational Hotel Database Application. Our database system is based on hotel management application which has operations for storing, deleting, updating, and maintaining various records that are vital in providing helpful information to the user. The application enables users to book rooms and provide details on the various types of rooms as well as any seasonal offers and prices. The employees of a branch can also input a record of customer booking a room or an event. Furthermore, the records that are generated from any transactions also link the customers and rooms associated with that transaction which helps in tracking and management.  The system tracks all employees in each of its respective branches along with their assigned managers. The system also provides comprehensive information of each branch regarding all of its the rooms, its availability, offers and also details regarding any events have been booked in that branch. There are also some constraints have been implemented to ensure accuracy, integrity, and consistency in the database. For example, when the customer tries to book an event at a branch, the system ensures that no other events are occurring at that branch. Additionally, as a different constraint, the system will also ensure that the rooms which the customer can book are available. This is achieved through input constraints which restrict users from booking a room that is currently occupied. In conclusion, this framework offers flexibility with a well-designed structure to the users and make their tasks more at ease in converting the records into useful information. It also provides a lot of information to upper management regarding a specific branch which can help in planning.
